Hello welcome back to the course on artificial intelligence.
All right so I hope you're enjoying the tutorial so far we're nearly done with the intuition you soon
very soon get to the practical side of things we've just got a few little things that we need to cover.
All right so previously we talked about how we add neural networks into this whole equation of CULE
learning and take ular into the next step and turn it into deep learning.
And today we're going to add a an extra important feature which will be coding in the practical side
of things so a headline and I decided that it's important for us to cover it often in the intuition
side of things so that you're more prepared for it when it comes in the coding side of things.
So as we discussed we've got the network there's two parts that happen first of all it's the learning
so the network actually learns with every new status.
It slowly updates its waits to get better and better and better at dealing with this environment.
And then there is the acting inside the state so after the q values have been counted in the state then
once you value selected.
So today we're still going to talk about the learning part we're going to come up with a interesting
feature that's going to help in undergrads to come up with this feature ourselves but we'll talk about
a feature that is very important for a deep learning and that feature is called experience or replay.
All right.
So here is our network so we've just copied it over here.
We've got that lost that is Calcott.
The bottom is back propagate through a network and let's have a look at an example of what happens to
understand the problem that we're dealing with a bit better.
So here is an example actually from the course this is a screen shot shot exactly from this course this
is what you'll be programming.
This is a self-driving car that is driving through this along this road and it has to learn how to navigate
this road.
And so what it is as we discussed previously What is this in the state.
And of course the state is not going to be x1 x2.
Lundell will just describe it in a lot more detail what the state is it is going to be a couple of parameters
which relate to the angle of the car and some relative parameters what the sensors are reading and so
on.
So there's going to be more parameters than that to describe the state.
But nevertheless it's going to be a vector of values going to go through a neural network and then on
the output you're going to have some ACU values.
Again there'll be a difference depending on the environment.
They can be a different number of actions possible actions.
But it just going to for simplicity sake leave it at for just for us to be able to understand better
what's going on here.
So in this case what is the question is so far what is this.
This inputs into this neural network or more specifically how often do we trigger this neural network.
How often does this neural net growth.
Well every time the car ends up in a new state so the car makes a move it ends up in a new state and
then everything go.
All that data all that information from about the state goes through the network give Alice the calculated
errors.
This error is calculated based on what we discussed in previous tutorials.
This error is back propagated through and the weights are updated.
Then the car selects which action was to take makes that move ends up in a new state in the new state.
Everything starts over again.
And so basically this happens every time the car is in and you said well have a look at this example
and I specifically took the screen shot because it looks it's very well illustrates the problem that
is addressed through experience replay and means replace not just something that we use in this course
or in this specific problem.
It is something that you will see used all.
On and on and over and over again in artificial intelligence algorithms because it is so powerful and
it's so important.
So look at this car this car in this problem or in this environment its goal is to come from go from
here to here and back.
Its goal is to navigate its way here here without crossing these walls which are made of sand.
And so the car started over here it went down and like its reward is based on you know how close it
is to start.
So the car went from here it went down and kept going like this like this like this like this or along
this wall along the seawall.
And what is it going to do next is going to turn is going to keep going.
Well what we wanted to do is keep going here.
But let's think about it for a second.
Once it got to this wall every single time it moves forward it moves forward it moves forward it moves
forward moves forward moves forward moves forward and so on it moves forward.
So they might be like depending on the structure environment could be like a hundred moves here or 50
moves here.
It just keeps moving forward forward forward forward forward.
And nothing changes nothing really changes it gets way further away from this started closer to this
started.
That's lovely.
But in terms of the surrounding environment not many things are changing it's still that same wall.
If you are sitting in the car you probably seen the situation when you're driving in the whatever you're
seeing is like the environment is so monotonous that you're just seeing kind of the same thing as just
passing by but like Imagine you're driving through a desert and you're just seeing the same thing it's
the same sound it's the same sound nothing is happening nothing is changing.
And so base but every single time we're putting that state new state into here.
Yes of course something might be changing for us as you're driving the car and your GPS is showing you're
closer to your destination.
So one of these inputs is strange but a lot of these other inputs the sensors for instance which are
on the car they're not changing and therefore as you're driving.
So in this day to put in put in put into New Orleans we're here here here here here here here and here
and here all the time the inputs are pretty much the same.
And so if you keep inputting the same inputs same values in vector or very similar vectors into your
network because there is no variety.
The car will learn very well.
One thing you'll learn very well how to drive along this wall which is on its right.
And so that's how the network will update and it will get rewarded will slowly start getting rewarded
for driving so well it'll be like oh I saw from here will be so learning Oh I'm doing so good I'm doing
better I'm doing it better.
It.
It will have this this false perception that it's actually doing very well even though it only learns
how to drive along as well as other neural networks will become very adapted to driving along this wall
and then all of a sudden there's this curve and the car doesn't know what to do.
And it completely doesn't fit in with this neural network.
And even if it does it just somehow let's hypothetically say passes the spot and then it ends up on
this wall.
Same thing is going to happen is going to drive from here here here.
OK now the neural network is restructuring itself to adapt to this wall and then bam this thing happens.
And then even if somehow get past that it'll drive past this thing and then same thing along these lines.
So basically this is a very vivid example of the problem that we are what we have is that because the
way we're using the neural net updating it every single state once we have lots of consecutive stuff
they don't even have to be the same.
But there is in environments it's normal that is consecutive states are somehow correlated or are somehow
interdependent and we don't want that interdependency to bias our network.
We don't want the car to just learn how to drive along like a straight line or a long curved line or
like anything that you think you can think of in in life where an agent would be Navigant environment
where we can think of correlated or interdependent states that come after another that can really mess
up your neural network.
If you're just going to let the agent learn from that.
And that's where experience replay comes in.
What what happens in experience replay is these experiences so these states that it's in one two three
however many 50 states here in IRL they don't get pushed through the network right away.
They are actually saved into memory of the agent.
And so for instance it saves these and saves all these and some at some point once it reaches a certain
threshold which you'll be able to code and Atlanta will show you how to do that.
Once it reaches a certain threshold then the agent decides for itself.
OK it's time to learn.
I have I have this batch of experiences that I have and now I'm going to learn from that batch and sewed
randomly selects a uniformly distributed and uniform these key is important here because that's something
we'll we'll talk about on the next slide.
We'll book will mention that.
But it takes a uniformly distributed sample.
So basically all experiences are considered to be equal.
It takes a uniformly distributed sample from that batch of experiences that it has and then it goes
through them and learns from them so it doesn't take all the experience it just takes and uniformly
distribute samples it might take a couple from here a couple from here a couple from here and each experience
is characterized by the state it was in the action that it took the state it ended up in and the reward
is it achieved through that action in that specific state.
So four elements in each experience state one action state two and reward.
And so it takes all those experiences and then it passes them through the network and it learns and
that way it it breaks the pattern of that bias which comes from the sequential nature of the experience
as if you were to put them through the network one after the other.
So that's the main focus of experience we play.
That's that's what the problem it addresses.
And another benefit of experience replay is that sometimes in an environment like this you might have
very valuable rare experiences.
So for instance I don't know let's say let's look at this corner right this is this is a right corner.
Right.
And a very sharp one is sharp so it'll be coming from here assuming it's going to be hugging this corner.
So having you sharp right corners do we have in this in this whole new army only have one right corner
here and one right corner here.
Right.
So when it's coming this way that's the right corner.
And then when it's going back it's a sharp right corner here.
So and this one's not sharp this in the shop so there's only one opportunity in the whole environment
to learn from a sharp right corner.
And that's a very important experience because it might get really good at driving along straight lines
get really good doing like soft corners like that like that.
But and then it'll keep messing up this sharp right corner simply because simply because it doesn't
have that much opportunity to learn from it and so therefore it will learn everything else very quickly.
But it'll take a long time to learn or learn the right course.
It's a very simplified example is a very simplified explanation but it illustrates the concept that
sometimes there are rare experiences which are which can be valuable.
And if you're just doing a simple neural network where you're putting in your values here and you know
they're going through and you know like even if you forget about that problem of the sequential nature
of experiences and how they can be interdependent or correlated info even forget about that for a second
what happens is once you put an experience in it goes through Netflix updated then you instantly forget
it.
Forget about their experience.
You move on to the next one.
That's just how the neural network works.
Then you move onto the next date the next day the next day the next experience experience experience
and so on.
So this right corner as soon as it goes through a network is gone there and you don't have any memory
of that valuable experience whereas we've experienced replay because you're putting these experiences
into batches.
You can organize your bash as a rolling window so for instance you could have like 100 batches So hundred
experiences in your batch.
So when it's coming back from here it's as soon as it has this recorded this experience in its batch.
Then like at some point it runs it takes a uniform distribution from its batch of experiences.
And then there's a rolling window so it forgets these experiences but then it keeps these experiences
and then again and it learns from once it's here it learns from this batch.
And then once it's here it forgets all the way up to here.
But then it has a batch of experiences like that so therefore now learn from these experiences.
And that way what you are getting is that this right hand corner might come up several times in its
learning process because it was in that batch when the batch was like this around there than it was
in the batch here in about here so it came up in several batches because of abash might be updated as
a rolling window of experience.
So the older experiences get kicked out the newer experiences are added and then again older experience
get it.
So in experience it stays in the batch for quite some time and the car or agent can learn from that
experience several times.
So that's another advantage of experience replay.
And of course the final advantage is experience replay gives you an opportunity to learn from more experiences
than if you're just learning for one at a time because you have that batch and therefore And it's a
rolling window and therefore even if your environment is limited to experience your experience replay
approach can help you learn faster.
And instead of just redoing there are many many many times you can learn fast because you don't have
to redo it.
You have those experiences saved.
So those are the main advantages of ex-Marines replay.
Let's recap on that we've got that.
We're breaking that pattern of independence and correlation of sequential experiences we save rare experiences
which might be important therefore we can learn from them more often and we can learn in environments
we can learn Foster environments which are experience.
We have a shortage of experiences which don't have that many experiences that the agent goes through
and still we can be able to learn.
So that is what experience replay is all about.
If you'd like to read a bit more than this.
There's an interesting article published by deep mind in 2016 is called prioritized experience replay
and it talks about why why are we using a uniform distribution to select our experiences from the experience
Bachche why don't we find a better way to select our experiences and prioritize some of the experiences
which we feel that are important.
It's quite an interesting thing though in this case you will be able to not only reinforce or not only
reinforce your knowledge on experience replay but you will actually be able to move with the cutting
edge of technology.
So this is 2016 and published by deep minds.
It's a very recent very powerful paper so you'll be able to actually explore the limits or explore even
further this algorithm and take it to the next level.
So I'll leave it up to you to find out why and how we can change the uniform solution to a different
approach to experience really from this paper if you'd like.
And I hope you answer to this Tauriel and now we know what experience really is and we can confidently
use it in our practical Sorrells.
And I look for see an extent until then enjoy a.